#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{braket}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sgn}{sgn}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Ai}{Ai}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Bi}{Bi}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Ground State Calculator: Notes"
\pdf_author "Adam Robinson"
\pdf_subject "Variational Principle Ground State Calculator Notes"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1cm
\topmargin 1.5cm
\rightmargin 1cm
\bottommargin 1.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Ground State Calculator: Ideas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Adam J.
 Robinson
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
A Method for Determining Excited State Energies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All stationary states are orthogonal.
 Addtionally, the first excited state is the state that is both orthogonal
 to the ground state and minimizes the expectation value of the Hamiltonian.
 It may be possible to find excited states by taking a Fourier Transform
 of the ground state, into frequency space.
 This would make it easy to determine trial wavefunctions which are orthogonal
 to the ground state.
 If the expectation value of the Hamiltonian for sine and cosine states
 can be determined, this can be used to find the orthogonal state that minimizes
 the expectation value of the Hamiltonian.
 Further analysis will be neccesary to determine whether or not this process
 will actually be practical.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Monte Carlo Optimization
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Perform Monte Carlo based determination of the ground state energy.
 The process can be made faster by determining a rate at which to decrease
 the size of the terms added to the wavefunction.
 This rate would have to be determined through experimentation (probably
 not analyticlly, but maybe).
 The mean and standard deviation of the change in energy expected from each
 step could then be estimated.
 These values can be used to adjust the accuracy of the Monte Carlo integration
 techniques being used.
 Early in the process, low accuracy integration can be used, so long as
 the error is an order of magnitude less than the expected change in the
 energy with each step.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
